# Working with AutoIncrement fields


`TMemTableEh` has an `AutoIncrement` property with `InitValue` and `Step` subproperties to work with fields which values are generated by automatic sequence numbers. 

For such fields property `TField.AutoGenerateValue` must be `arAutoInc`. Values for such fields are generated automatically using internal counter when the new record is appeared in the internal array. Initial value of the counter is assigned by the `TMemTableEh.InitValue` property. 

After inserting new record, a value of the counter increases on the number given by the `TMemTableEh.Step` property.

If `TMemTableEh` is connected to `DataDriver` then usually values of such fields are generated by the server. To cause `TMemTableEh` be able to get values of fields generated by the server, it is recommended to use `TMemTableEh` and `TSQLDataDriver` (or inherited from it) as follow:
Set `InitValue` property and `Step` property to -1. `Values` of `AutoIncrement` fields will have negative values before sending the new record to the server.

Add parameters in `TSQLDataDriver.SpecParams` property to make `SQLDataDriver` be able to get values of `AutoIncrement` fields generated by the server. 

List of parameters in `TSQLDataDriver.SpecParams` depends on the type of `Server` and will be described later. After updates are applied and record new writes to the server, `SQLDataDriver` will request new value of the counter from server and assign it to the `AutoIncrement` field on the client.


